Article title: Android users can now disable 2G to block Stingray attacks : r/privacy

r/privacy • 2 yr. ago
PrivateAd990

Article title: Android users can now disable 2G to block Stingray attacks

question

I'm on Android 13 on a Samsung and I don't see this option. "Settings → Network & Internet → SIMs → Allow 2G". Anyone else know how to disallow 2G?

Read more

Article title: Android users can now disable 2G to block Stingray attacks

bleepingcomputer.com
Open

Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast.

Grammarly • Official•Promoted

Now inbox zero takes zero effort. Get fresh ideas, instant first drafts, and helpful writing suggestions with Grammarly. Try it for free today.

Download

grammarly.com

Sort by:
Best

Open comment sort options

Best
Top
New
Controversial
Old
Q&A

[deleted]
• 2y ago• Edited 2y ago

In case your Android smartphone does not have the option to disable 2G

Open your phone app, then type:

`*#*#4636#*#*`

Then enter **Phone Information**.

"Set Preferred Network Type" to "LTE-only" (4g), LTE/WCDMA (4G/3G), NR/LTE/WCDMA (5G/4G/3G)

Reply
reply

GiantQuoll
• 2y ago

It should be noted that LTE-only will also disable 3G - which may seriously affect your coverage - and your device's Preferred Roaming List (PRL), which may prevent your device from roaming.

If roaming doesn't matter to you, and you want to disable **only 2G**, select "LTE/WCDMA".

Reply
reply

3 more replies

5c044
• 2y ago

Fir 4g and 5g you want to set LTE/NR may save some battery life no scanning for anything pre 4g too

Reply
reply

8 more replies

notjordansime
• 2y ago

Doesn't stingray work with 3G and 4G too?

Reply
reply

notcaffeinefree
• 2y ago

Yes and no. The whole reason they work with 2G is because the spec for it didn't require networks to authenticate to devices. 3G and 4G do. But it seems like the LTE spec has a vulnerability that is exploitable, so 3G and 4G devices may still be attacked.

5G apparently has it's own issues still, some of which are just because it's using some 4G equipment as the companies get the 5G stuff up and running.

Reply
reply
More replies

acidpro1
• 2y ago

Available on Google pixel

Reply
reply

[deleted]
•2y ago

Comment deleted by user

Reply
reply

2 more replies

PrivateAd990
• 2y ago

On a Samsung Galaxy device:

Most of Samsung's modern smartphones have 5G modems, ranging from the expensive Galaxy S23 Ultra to the $200 Galaxy A14. However, the company removed the ability to toggle your network mode in settings and prevented the workarounds we describe on this page from working. Even third-party apps like Netmonitor and the aptly-named Samsung Band Selector no longer work after a change in mid-2022.

Reference: https://www.androidpolice.com/force-phone-lte-5g-tutorial/

Reply
reply

SlothinaHammock
• 2y ago

Yep, unable to disable 2g on my s21. Thanks samsung. God I'm so over Samsung

Reply
reply

1 more reply

3 more replies

Enable_Chaos
• 2y ago

Amazing.. just sad to see this technology a little too late.

Reply
reply

1 more reply

v941
• 2y ago

Look in settings -> connections -> mobile networks

Reply
reply

PrivateAd990
• 2y ago

I checked there, no option to turn off 2G

Reply
reply

3 more replies

[deleted]
•2y ago

Comment deleted by user

Reply
reply

hopopo
• 2y ago

Do you know how to remove the triangle from notification bar in the upper right corner once 2g is off?

Reply
reply

4 more replies

[deleted]
•2y ago

Comment deleted by user

Reply
reply

AnAwkwardOrchid
• 2y ago

So you chose "3G only", forgoing any 4G or 5G connections?

Reply
reply

1 more reply

SwallowYourDreams
• 2y ago

Article & feature from 2022. This has been out for a while. It's good nevertheless and doesn't seem to have been well-known, judging from the replies here.

Reply
reply

Sostratus
• 2y ago

That's probably a good idea, but has 3/4/5G really addressed these vulnerabilities? Preventing IMSI catchers would require your phone to have a certificate store that legitimate towers have to authenticate themselves against. I think they at least do _some_ sort of authentication now? But detailed documentation is hard to find, so I have a hard time believing it's done robustly.

Reply
reply

Snoo19269
• 2y ago

Unfortunately my network requires 2G be available, slightly disappointing and not practical for me to switch atm as I'm on a contract, but certainly good to know in the future when my contract ends thanks!

Reply
reply

View more comments

Top Posts

* * *

- Reddit
reReddit: Top posts of August 17, 2023

* * *

- Reddit
reReddit: Top posts of August 2023

* * *

- Reddit
reReddit: Top posts of 2023

Trending topics today

- Timberwolves beat Warriors
- Goggins on SNL
- Muhammad vs Maddalena
- Fahkumram in Tekken 8
- Golden Knights stun Oilers
- Fandom sells Giant Bomb

Reddit RulesPrivacy PolicyUser AgreementReddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved.

Expand NavigationCollapse Navigation

Invalid input.

ERROR for site owner: Invalid key type

reCAPTCHAPrivacy - Terms

reCAPTCHAPrivacy - Terms

protected by **reCAPTCHA**

Privacy - Terms

reCAPTCHAPrivacy - Terms

protected by **reCAPTCHA**

Privacy - Terms

reCAPTCHAPrivacy - Terms

protected by **reCAPTCHA**

Privacy - Terms
