---
title: Bare metal works, until it doesn't. Hello, cloud.
draft: false
date: 2024-01-03
tags:
  - aws
  - gcp
  - cloud
---

Bare metal works until it doesn't. Hello, cloud.

## Background

Have you ever wondered how websites (and everything else online) work? You can often create a project on your computer. It works as you expect. To let other people use it, you have to "deploy" it. For many years, to handle many requests, you needed to run your applications in a data center. Now, this is called on-premise.

## Architecture

Let's look at a simple online store website design. This includes the front part of the website, the back part, and a database. If you let users update many items at once, you need to add a system to handle the updates without overloading the back end.

This works well, but your website becomes very popular, and your computer's CPU and memory are always working at full power. You try to upgrade to a bigger computer, but it becomes too expensive. You can use a load balancer to spread requests across different computers. This works, but it takes time to set up.

You get a big deal for your website, and they want some special features. You create many new features, but it takes a long time to release them. You make mistakes and wish you could go back to releasing updates once a month.

## Cloud enters the chat

These problems are common for on-premise users, and there are ways to fix them. Using the cloud can reduce the work needed to keep things running and allows you to release updates faster.

Let's see how the cloud can help:

### 1. Frontend, backend, database, etc.

If you develop using your own computer, you need to start each part separately. This can be hard to manage. Using the cloud means you can develop using resources already in the cloud.

For example, you can test a change to the website's look using a test version of the back end and database. You can focus on the website's look instead of setting up the other parts.

### 2. Scaling

With on-premise, you can't grow beyond your computer's limits. If a marketing campaign brings many people to your website, your traffic will increase, using more resources. With on-premise, you can only wait or shut down the website. This would be bad for your website's reputation.

If you use the cloud, you can set up automatic scaling. You can use containers and link them to a load balancer to spread traffic. You can also increase your computer's resources during busy times and reduce them later to save money.

On AWS, you can use ECS for computing and define a load balancer. On GCP, Cloud Run can do the same thing.

### 3. CI/CD

From my experience, deploying with on-premise usually means copying files to the server by hand. This can lead to mistakes. You can use Jenkins for CI/CD, but it requires more work than using cloud-managed build solutions.

With AWS, you can connect a code repository to AWS Code Build to build deployment files and deploy them using Code Pipeline. GCP has similar services. You can also do this with your VCS providers (GitHub, Gitlab, etc.). I would do CI/CD through VCS providers. It requires more work but gives better visibility.

## Closing

People ask me which cloud to use. I say, "Use what people around you use so you can ask them for help." Some clouds are better at certain things. If you're starting and don't have anyone to ask for help, AWS is better because it has more users. GCP is also good, but there are fewer users. This means you're on your own unless you understand the official documentation.

I didn't mention Kubernetes. Unless you have many services to manage or a team to support them, Kubernetes' operations overhead would be too much for you.

You can do everything you can do with the cloud on an on-premise system. But do you have enough people to set it up and maintain it?

[Reference](https://karnwong.me/posts/2023/03/bare-metal-works-until-it-doesnt-hello-cloud/)
