---
title: Haxoris Wiki
draft: false
date: 2024-01-24
tags:
  - IIS
  - Tilde Enumeration
  - Security
---

[Back to Website](https://haxoris.com/)

# Haxoris Wiki

[Print this book](https://haxoris.com/haxoris-wiki/print.html)

IIS Tilde Enumeration (sometimes called the IIS Short Filename Vulnerability) uses the way old Windows systems used to support 8.3 short filenames. When Microsoft Internet Information Services (IIS) is running, attackers can use requests that have shortened directory or file names with a tilde character ( `~`), like `FOLDER~1`, to check if hidden directories or files exist. By guessing these short names, an attacker might find secret paths or filenames that should not be seen by the public.

This problem comes from old DOS-style naming in Windows. If short filename creation is turned on, each long filename also has a short 8.3 name. IIS, depending on how it is set up, might respond differently when a correct or incorrect short name is requested, showing directory or file structures that are not meant to be seen.

If the real folder on the server is `SecretAdmin`, the short name might be `SECRE~1`. An attacker might try URLs like:

```

GET /SECRE~1/ HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com

```

- If the server responds with a `200 OK` (or a `403/401`, meaning it exists but is not allowed), the attacker knows the folder probably exists.
- If it responds with a `404 Not Found`, the guess was wrong, and they try another short name.

Similarly, if a file is named `ImportantConfig.txt` in the `Config` directory, the attacker might test requests for `IMPOR~1.TXT` in that directory:

```

GET /Config/IMPOR~1.TXT HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com

```

Different server responses or error messages can show that the file is there, even if it is not linked anywhere on the site.

1. **Disable 8.3 Filename Creation**

- If your Windows version and application allow it, you can turn off 8.3 short file name creation on new drives using registry settings or system policies.
- (Remember that changing this setting might affect older applications.)
- For example, on some Windows systems, you can change:

```

HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\FileSystem
NtfsDisable8dot3NameCreation = 1

```

1. **Apply Security Patches and Updates**
- Make sure you are using the latest version of IIS and Windows.
- Microsoft has released updates that make it harder to find file or directory information using the short name method.
1. **Restrict Folder and File Access**
- Use Access Control Lists (ACLs) to protect important directories and files, preventing unauthorized access even if short filename enumeration shows they exist.
- Set up strong authorization checks in IIS to make sure only the right users can access important resources.

[Reference](https://haxoris.com/haxoris-wiki/print.html)
