---
title: Haxoris Wiki
draft: false
date: 2024-01-29
tags:
  - Security
  - Logging
  - Monitoring
  - Vulnerabilities
---

Security Logging and Monitoring Failures happen when a program doesn't record, check, or react to important security events well enough. This lets attackers do things without being noticed. If there isn't good logging and monitoring, companies might not see when they've been hacked, keep track of suspicious actions, or respond to problems quickly. This can lead to stolen data, damaged systems, or attackers staying around for a long time.

Common Problems:

- Not logging important events (like logins, failed login attempts, or when someone gets more access than they should).
- Not noticing or warning about repeated hacking attempts or unauthorized access.
- Logs that don't have enough information (like missing times, user IDs, or IP addresses).
- Keeping logs in unsafe places, which lets attackers change or delete evidence.
- Not having real-time monitoring or automatic alerts for security events.
- Too many false alarms, which causes real dangers to be ignored.

To make these risks less likely, companies should turn on logging for logins and important system events. They should also keep logs safe and protect them from being changed. It's important to set up real-time monitoring with alerts and check logs regularly to find anything unusual. Using special security tools (SIEM) and setting up plans to respond to problems quickly can really help to see what's happening and find threats.

[Reference](https://haxoris.com/haxoris-wiki/print.html)
